Good morning.
The text for our meditation this morning comes to us from our gospel.
Listen, let's begin with a word of prayer.
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time where we gather together in faith under your invitation to be here to receive this morning the gift of a Savior.
And for every Sunday we receive the gift of your word, of your sacrament given to us.
We ask now that
by the power of your Holy Spirit here among us that you would plant your word deeply within us, that it would guide our heart, our hearts, our thoughts, and our words and our actions as we go about assault and light in your kingdom.
In the name of your son Jesus, we pray.
Amen.
Please be seated.
Your brothers and sisters in Christ, this is the fourth day of Christmas.
As we move closer to the epiphany of our Lord,
It seems that our culture and society likes to cut Christmas off at 12 a.m. on December 26th.
Of course, it begins like the day after Halloween.
But as Christians, we love to linger on a bit.
Kind of much like hanging around the dinner table after a special meal, like a Thanksgiving or Christmas.
We all kind of hover and picket things until it's
But we kind of like hanging around the Christmas season, even if it's for a short while.
I have an interesting exchange with a person who in response to my insistence that the Christmas season, indeed, lasted the 12 days between Christmas and Epiphany.
This person told me with great conviction, well, that is only in church time.
I must admit I was taken aback a bit and was a bit incredulous when I responded, but we're celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ.
Who is the church?
Oi.
And their response was something to the effect of, well, it's not that way in the real world.
Another Oi and a slap of the head.
But it is an event that we want to linger in.
Taking in the manger scene, taking in all of kind of the trappings, taking in the image,
of God coming down to us as someone we could recognize.
As a baby, baby Jesus wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger surrounded by Mary and Joseph, shepherds, angels singing the glory in ex-jealous, glory to God in the highest.
It's beautiful.
It's peaceful.
It's hopeful.
It's a place we want to linger.
The coming of Jesus into our world is undoubtedly the most positive and life-giving event in all of history.
The greatest gift that God could give us was God Himself entering our flesh to save us from sin and death and the devil.
Emmanuel, God with us.
We sing it with longing and gusto and in advent.
O come, O come, Emmanuel, God be with us, please.
What could be better than lingering in that?
But today's gospel reading from Matthew 2, in a way, kind of pulls back the curtain on the darker side of the story.
Not everyone is happy about this birth of the Messiah.
This Jesus, not everyone is happy about Christmas.
Just read a little snippet from our gospel.
When the wise men had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in the dream and said, rise, take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him.
And he rose and he took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod.
This was to fill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet out of Egypt.
I called my son.
Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious.
And he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem.
And in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men, then was fulfilled, what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah.
A voice was heard in Rama weeping.
and law of lamentation.
Rachel weeping for her children.
She refused to be comforted because they are no more.
This family, Mary Joseph and Jesus, were on the run.
They became refugees, fleeing in the dead of night to a foreign land.
While back in Bethlehem, innocent babies are slaughtered.
simply because paranoid King Herod sees this newborn Jesus, this Messiah, it's King of the Jews, a threat to his own power.
And our reading from Matthew emphasizes God's plan, a plan of action to protect and care for
the one who is in danger, for the one who will ultimately save us from our sins.
The humanity of Jesus is on full display, or he could be killed.
Human, killed.
There is a fear for his life.
But as a plan unfolds, we are kind of moved quickly from the readings last week
from serenity and joy of Christmas to that of Jesus in a very vulnerable state being carried through a world that is not receiving him.
A world that is filled with opposition and violence.
Violence even going so far as innocent children of Bethlehem being slaughtered.
It's hard to even imagine.
To every action, there is a reaction.
The consequences of Christmas are severe, and they do not stop at Bethlehem.
Not everyone is happy.
Herod is furious.
His throne feels like it's at risk, a little shaky.
The king of the Jews, born in Bethlehem, challenges everything that Herod holds dear.
loves his control, he loves his authority, he obviously loves his way of life.
And so this light of Christ already is doing what it is supposed to do.
And now it is to expose the darkness.
And in this instance, the darkness that is in Herod's heart, in his being.
And so Herod lashes out in rage.
This is a consequence of Jesus coming down to us.
When God enters our world in the person of Jesus, it is glorious news for those who receive Him.
But it truly is a threat to those who love and cling to the darkness more than the light.
The gospel divides.
It brings resistance.
It has a way of provoking opposition.
And we see it in the world around us.
We see it in our culture, in our society, in which we live, in the families we love.
We see this pattern throughout scripture.
Pharaoh tried to destroy the baby Moses because he feared of Israel growing, leading up to
the powers of the world crucifying Jesus himself.
And even after the resurrection, Jesus disciples facing persecution or proclaiming his name.
But even today, not everyone is happy about the birth of Jesus and especially the people who believe as we do that he is the Son of God, the only way to the Father.
That's a hard argument to get into sometimes around the dinner table.
The message that we are sinners in need of a Savior offends our their pride.
The call to repent and follow Christ challenges comfortable lives.
The truth that Jesus is the only way to the Father threatens every human attempt to earn our salvation on our own terms, and we think we can.
We think that somehow if we live good lives and treat people well, we have got it pretty much stowed up.
It doesn't really matter if there's a God, if there's Jesus, what I believe, but as long as I treat people well, then I guess I'm doing a good enough job.
But in our world, the gospel still meets resistance.
In some places, Christians face persecution.
churches burned, believers in prison killed, just look at what is happening in North Africa now.
Just as those innocent children in Bethlehem really paid a price for only being in the proximity of the Christ child.
Closer to home, the light of Christ exposes.
It exposes sin and our culture.
It exposes the sin in ourselves.
All those things, greed, selfishness, immorality, the turning away from God.
In our belief and for our faith, we often get the reaction of mockery, cancellation, and some laws that push our faith to the margins.
And sometimes it feels like we're alone.
And maybe we are.
Maybe we are that last little remnant.
And even in our hearts, there can be a little bit of that darkness of Herod where God's Word has a way of confronting our pet sins or calls us to sacrifice or calls us to change behaviors.
Do we welcome it?
Do we find a way to resist or rationalize, get angry, lash out?
It certainly is a difficult text this morning.
But the gospel, the good news part of this is that God's rule is sovereign overall and complete and will never end.
Even over the resistance that we
sometimes run into.
He's got our back.
He warns Joseph in a dream.
He protects his son.
He fulfills his promises through it all.
Yeah, in that moment, Jesus escapes Herod's wrath.
He escapes being slaughtered.
Not that he's going to avoid suffering forever, but to face it later on the cross where he would take all of our sins, be sin himself and defeat sin and death once and for all, giving us not an optimism, but an assurance.
I can't imagine being a parent back in that time in Bethlehem and seeing your child slaughtered.
And the mothers and the fathers and the families didn't know it then, but the blood of their children pointed forward to the blood of the Lamb who would take away all the sins of the world.
Jesus, who is the ultimate innocent
would suffer so that no suffering or innocent suffering is meaningless.
He comes to us, he enters our pain, and in the word of a hymn that escapes me now, he enters our poison air, our exile, our grief, and one day he will wipe away every tear.
Rachel's weeping will turn to joy when
We and all those who've gone before us rise in Christ.
I don't think most of us want Christmas and it's a peaceful place to be.
The coming of Jesus into our world is beautiful and positive infinitely, but it comes with consequences.
There will be resistance to the gospel, what you believe, what I believe,
There will be resistance to you.
There will be resistance within your circle of friends and even your family.
Jesus says in Matthew 10, anyone who loves your father or mother more than me is not worthy of me.
Anyone who loves your son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
It's another ouch verse.
But we love our families, but we also know that our ultimate allegiance and love goes to our Savior Jesus.
And we take heart because we know, I say it a lot, how the story ends.
The darkness cannot overcome the light.
Jesus is one.
He is with us in the fight in whatever we are up against.
He's with us in the opposition.
He's with us in the resistance.
He's with us in those times where we're talking to people who are resisting us and we're simultaneously trying to say something and pray at the same time for words.
And he will in the end bring us safely home to himself.
I shared this passage yesterday with the family of Ralph, Domo, who is in ICU at Methodist Hospital.
It comes from Paul's second letter to the Corinthians in chapter four.
Therefore, we do not lose heart.
Though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day, for our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all.
So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen.
Since what is seen is temporary.
But what is unseen is eternal.
Folks, that is our assurance as Christians.
The light we carry in Christ, the unseen things that in faith we rely.
And yes, it attracts opposition, resentment, and even hatred.
And so we shouldn't be surprised when not everyone is happy about Christmas.
Instead,
I need to.
You need to.
We need to cling to the one who came for us.
We trust His protection.
We boldly share the light that is ours through Him and the gospel that saves even when it may cost us.
Because in the end, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.
the peace of God which surpasses all understanding, guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
Amen.